=pod

=head1 NAME

 cpanel-dnsupdater.pl

=head1 VERSION

 0.8.2

=head1 USAGE

 cpanel-dnsupdater.pl [options]

 Example:
 cpanel-dnsupdater.pl --host home --domain domain.tld --cpanel_user cptest --cpanel_pass 12345 --cpanel_domain cptest.tld --check_host 8.8.8.8

=head1 DESCRIPTION

 This script is useful for updating the IP address of an A record on a cPanel hosted domain with either a supplied IP, or a detected IP. This allows you to use your own cPanel domain for dynamic DNS instead of having to use a third party DNS service. 
 
 If your specify email address parameters, then script output is emailed to you, otherwise all output is printed to STDOUT.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=head2  Required

  --host          Host name to update in the domain's zonefile. eg. 'www'
  --domain        Name of the domain to update
  --cpanel_user   cPanel account login name
  --cpanel_pass   cPanel account password
  --cpanel_domain cPanel account domain name
  --check_host    IP address of host to check for connectivity. eg. 8.8.8.8 or your DNS resolver

=head2  Optional

  --ip              IP address to update the A record with. This defaults to the detected external IP.
  --email_auth_user Email address for SMTP Auth
  --email_auth_pass Password for SMTP Auth (use \ to escape characters)
  --email_addr      Email address to send successful/error report to (defaults to email_auth_user)
  --outbound_server Server to send mail through
  --helo            Change the HELO that is sent to the outbound server, this setting defaults to the current hostname

=head2 Using a Config File (.cpaneldyndns)

    Instead of passing options on the command line, a configuration file in your home directory can be used.
    Any options specified on the command line will override the configuration file options.
    This file has to be called .cpaneldyndns, and the file takes the format of 'option=value', eg:
    host=home
    domain=mydomain.com

=head1 EXIT STATUS

 Exits with 1 if there was any issue updating the record, 255 if the end of script was reached in error, and 0 if IP was either changed, or the detected IP matches the given IP.

=head1 AUTHOR

 Paul Trost <paul.trost@trostfamily.org>
 Original code by Stefan Gofferje - http://stefan.gofferje.net/

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

 Copyright 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015.
 This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License v2, or at your option any later version.
 <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
